Let's go ahead and
start styling this then.
The place I'm gonna start is
styling the blue background.
And we kind of have already
seen this pattern in effect.
If you think back to that
contact section that we did,
where we have our plum background
color for the section, okay?
We could do the same thing here for
the background color for
the project's portion of the screen,
this should be blue, okay?
So let's set that up here,
sure, fork this, there we go.
So the way to do that,
of course here in our CSS,
we'll scroll on down here to
all around line 64 or so.
And we can add our section-blue class or
dark blue I guess is
what I called it DK blue.
And we're going to have a background
color of that dark blue,
that's the name from the variable.
Okay, and then we need to, of course,
apply it to the work here,
so let's put in that div.
And that div is gonna go where?
It's gonna go around the whole section
because the section may have a limited
width to it, but the blue background color
is gonna go all the way across the page.
So we'll add that here,
div with class of section-dkblue.
And we'll close that div down
here at the bottom, okay?
So now we have a nice blue
background to work with.
And of course, that's gonna be
limited to our particular projects.
And then we're ready to
style up the rest of this.
As you take a look at the project section
here you can see that we've got our
text and our images are smashing
into the edges of our window here.
So the first thing to do is to make
sure we give this a little bit of
breathing room.
If you take a look back at the CSS
that we've written so far,
we've got 4 rems of space pretty
consistently at the top and
the bottom of things like the footer,
and the introduction, and so forth.
We've actually got a little more space
at the bottom of the introduction, so
we should probably continue
with that pattern.
And so what we'll do here and
I'm just scroll down to just
before the media queries,
we go, right on in here.
And so what I'm gonna do was put
in a comment projects section.
And so for the projects section overall,
we can give that a padding of 4rem 1rem,
right,
that should get it off the edges
of the page very nice.
And then for projects,
h2, let's address that,
so this has got a default font size here.
What we'd like to do is
change that a little bit,
I think I have it a little bit bigger and
give it some different
space here on the bottom, so
my font size will be 2.5rem.
And my margin on the bottom, What I have
here is the following, I really would
like it to be if my font size is 2.5rem.
I would like to be consistent with
my line height, so in other words,
I'd like to have 1.5 times 2.5rem.
And I could work that math if I wanted
to or I could use something like calc.
So calc is this little function that will
do math for you how awesome is that,
and so
we could just simply say 2.5rem times 1.5.
So this is sort of a very brief
introduction to calc that's
as simple as calc gets.
We can multiply two numbers, we can add
them, we can subtract them, and so forth.
Calc is of course compatible
with things like variables.
So if I had a number stored in a variable
we've used variables in this project,
their colors and their fonts,
we can't add and subtract those.
But if we had numbers somewhere
inside of those variables,
we could do math with those
particular variables if we wanted to.
And again, there's other courses
on the front end masters library.
They'll go into calc in more detail,
including my advanced layouts course, but
for right now that's what's going on.
We're gonna take our font size,
which was 2.5rem, and
we're gonna multiply it by 1.5 to
give us a little bit more space.
Make that text a little bigger and give us
space between that and our next project.
For projects, H3,
we know from our drawing,
we wanted that to be aqua and
color, so
let's set that up color bar aqua.
So that should make the words
wall of wonder are aqua color.
The h4 the latest project and
the technologies used including we're
gonna have to do some changes to that,
so for our projects h4.
We wanna have a font size
of something like one rim,
it's much smaller than the rest
of the text that's here.
And we're also going to want
to set our font family.
To var mono, so it has that
typewriter font look to it, okay?
And then we have that issue
of in our website here,
latest project, and
wall of wonder are very close together,
there's actually very little
space in between those.
Whereas in our CodePen,
we have a lot of space right now.
So that space is coming from the headings
by default have some margin associated
with them.
And we did zero out our margin way up
here in the beginning of the document.
We zeroed out the margin for our h1, h2,
and h3 up here back up more online for
h3 or so.
So now that space is coming
strictly from the h4 and
we can get rid of that just
by saying margin 0 and
that will remove that particular space.
Okay, the space that's here
now between the paragraph and
technologies used include
which is an h4 and
the space between that technologies
used to include and the list.
So that top space is coming from
the paragraph which has a margin on
the bottom by default from your browser.
And the space here between
the technologies and
the actual technologies that we're
using that comes from the list.
So that's why those
spaces are still there.
All right, now back to our HTML here, so
again in my diagram here I've got
my two headings all styled up.
But this big paragraph here we're gonna
need to turn that into a black box
aren't we?
We need to have a nice dark
background on it, we need around
some corners probably put some padding
on it, so let's make that happen.
I'm actually gonna start by putting
a class on that paragraph and
I'm gonna call it black box because
that's what we're gonna do to it,
we're gonna make it a black box.
And then,
we can write our style down here.
Class of black box, will look as follows,
it's gonna have a bit of
a background color, bar black.
So there you go now you can see that,
okay,
if you can't see it you can't style it.
So by putting things like background
colors and borders on your CSS first helps
to point you in direction as
to what you should do next, so
if you're just thinking, well,
I just need a black background.
There it is, well, we're not quite there
yet, so let's keep adding to that.
One of the things that we should probably
do is give it some padding, like 1rem,
give it a little bit of breathing room,
right?
We don't want it smashed into the edges of
the box, then we can round the corners.
Border radius maybe
something like 10 pixels.
So there we go there's the nice
rounded corners that we
were looking for
we can set the text color to white.
Okay, so there's the white for
the website,
you can also change our font size.
1rem because it is a little bit smaller
than what we have here by default and
we can set our line height to 1.5.
Remember once again 1.5 just a ratio,
not an absolute unit of measure, and
then that'll give you a little bit of
breathing room there in that black box.
Looking better already, isn't it?
Yeah, okay, so let's see here,
so we've got the headings,
those are looking good.
We've got our paragraph
that's looking good,
let's take a look at this next
one here then our technologies.
We have our three technologies here, so
that's all looking the way it should.
But these three technologies are still
set up as a bulleted list and
we wanna have them going
horizontally across the page.
So hopefully some of this you can
get that by now cuz we've only done
this like three or
four times at this point.
So projects, Ul, we're gonna have
that be our list, style type of none.
Turn off the bullets, turn off the extra
padding associated with this or
our padding zero and our margin is zero,
turn off all of that, so
there we go for that.
Then we're gonna want this to
go in a horizontal line, so
we can do that with Flexbox.
Display Flex.
Right, flex flow row wrap.
And then we want to have this left
aligned then we're gonna have our
justify content set to flex start in other
words set up to this the start of the row.
The reason I'm declaring this here
that is the default value for
Flexbox, but I'm gonna just declare it
anyway because I'm gonna change it later
than a couple of other scenarios.
Obviously the words all run into
each other that's not good,
so let's put in a gap, 1rem, there we go.
And it's a little bit big, so
let's reduce our font size to 1rem.
Right, not so bad, okay, so
the last part of this, is this image.
So right now we have our image
crashed into our technologies and
the way that we want it to look we
need a little bit more breathing room.
And then we have this weird
effect going on here.
This is that line that kind of
goes around on two sides and
it isn't quite touching the image, so
let's think about an approach for this.
We have our image here in place, maybe
what we need to do is put in a border,
we wanna put a border on two sides of this
image, we wanna put it on the top, and
we want to put it on the left.
But if you just put on the border,
it's going to touch the image itself.
So how do we get space between
the border and the image?
We use padding,
should you put in a little bit of padding,
that's gonna get the border off the edge
of the image, and then round the corners.
And that'll give you
the cool round corner here.
And it just so happens to be, this is how
CSS treats the edges of the border here.
It actually is kind of a cool effect,
it sort of curves just a little bit
right there on the edges, so
that's where that comes from.
So now all we have to do is just
write the code for that no big deal.
So this will be then the project's image.
And what we'll do, first of all,
let's get it away from the text and
give it all some breathing room,
so margin 2rem 0 4rem 0.
So give me a little bit of space here
between my technologies in the picture and
it'll give me a lot of space
down here on the bottom.
Then we can say border, left,
one pixel solid var aqua,
so that's something new that we
haven't actually looked at before.
You might have guessed that with these CSS
variables, you can put them in anywhere.
So far we've done things like a font color
or a background color, that kind of thing.
But here you can actually substitute in
that variable right for your border color.
So instead of one pixel solid red,
it's one pixel
solid var aqua, okay, so
that's the border left.
And then we just change
the next one to border top,
there we go, top, okay?
And then we can give this a border radius,
Let's say 25 pixels, okay, so
that's gonna round things up a little bit.
So if your eyes are really good, you can
see that we now have an aqua line going
across the top of the image and
down the side.
But it's a just like I said the border
is right on top of the image.
To give it a little bit of space
as you know, from the box model,
the distance between the content in
the border is the padding, right?
No different here,
even though it's an image instead
of text that distance is
still called padding, so
let's add that padding 1rem.
And that will move your image away
from that border, cool effect.
So you've actually seen that many
places on the web sometimes you'll see
a thumbnail effect, with or
without those rounded corners.
If you see that sort of border that
goes around the office a little square
picture or something.
And it's got sort of looks like a frame
on the picture it's on all four
sides that's that same idea here,
all we've done is just put it on two sides
instead of putting on all four sides.
And there you go, that wasn't so scary.
We have now coded your first project for
the mobile dimension, not bad.